178 massa web3 page (#182)
massalabs/docs: docs/build/massa-web3/massa-web3.mdx

<script>console.log("Massa Web3 ", window.massa);</script>
```

## Initialization

> You can either initialize a client with the help of the Wallet-provider or without it.

Reviewer: Add link for Wallet-provider.

Reviewer: We need to populate the wallet-provider page btw.

Reviewer: I would provide a bit more context. Something like:
"Some usage of massa-web3 require an account. This account can be either provided using Wallet-provider or directly in the code".

### With Wallet-provider

The Wallet-provider allows you to easily connect your dApp to a user's wallet, without having to worry about

> secret keys and other sensitive information. The Wallet-provider will automatically search for a wallet plugin installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secret keys and other sensitive information. The Wallet-provider will automatically detect if a wallet is installed and connect to it.
```
I would remove plugin as it's not necessarily a plugin.

> and connect to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="wallet-provider-react" label="React" default>

Full code can be found [here](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/blob/main/age/react/src/App.tsx)

```typescript
useEffect(() => {
  const registerAndSetProvider = async () => {
    try {
      let provider = (await providers(true, 10000))[0];
      let accounts = await provider.accounts();
      if (accounts.length === 0) {
        setErrorMessage("No accounts found");
        return;
      }
      setAccount(accounts[0]);
      if (!account || !provider) {
        return;
      }
      setClient(await ClientFactory.fromWalletProvider(provider, account));
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e);
      setErrorMessage(

>         "Please install massa station and the wallet plugin of Massa Labs and refresh."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "Please install massa station and the wallet plugin and refresh."
```

      );
    }
  };
  registerAndSetProvider();
}, [account]);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="vanilla-js" label="Vanilla JS" default>

Full code can be found [here](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/blob/main/age/html/js/index.js)

```typescript
let massa = window.massa;
let wallet = window.wallet;

let client = null;
let account = null;

const initializeClient = async () => {
  try {
    let provider = (await wallet.providers(true, 10000))[0];
    let accounts = await provider.accounts();
    if (accounts.length === 0) {
      throw new Error("No accounts found");
    }
    account = accounts[0];
    if (!account || !provider) {
      throw new Error("No account or provider found");
    }
    client = await massa.ClientFactory.fromWalletProvider(provider, account);
  } catch (e) {
    console.error(e);
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Without Wallet-provider

You can easily initialize a client instance using the ClientFactory class:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="mainnet-client" label="Mainnet" default>

```typescript
const baseAccount: IAccount = await WalletClient.getAccountFromSecretKey(

>   deployerPrivateKey

Reviewer: Why deployerPrivateKey ? And not simply privateKey ?

);

const testnetClient: Client = await ClientFactory.createDefaultClient(
  DefaultProviderUrls.MAINNET,
  true, // retry failed requests

>   baseAccount // optional parameter, will be used as default account when no account is specified

Reviewer: When no account is provided then it's not baseAccount that is used as it does not exist to begin with ? I'm confused about the comment.

Author: When we init a client with a baseAccount, we don't need to specify account for the upcoming calls as baseAccount will be used by default as the executor. However, you can also init a client without baseAccount, but you will then have to always specify who will be the executor of the calls
The comment is indeed not very clear, is it better now?

Reviewer: Yes, thanks!

<TabItem value="testnet-client" label="Testnet" default>

```typescript
const baseAccount: IAccount = await WalletClient.getAccountFromSecretKey(

>   deployerPrivateKey

Reviewer: Same as above.

);

const testnetClient: Client = await ClientFactory.createDefaultClient(
  DefaultProviderUrls.TESTNET,
  true, // retry failed requests

>   baseAccount // optional parameter, will be used as default account when no account is specified

Reviewer: Same as above.

<TabItem value="buildnet-client" label="Buildnet" default>

```typescript
const baseAccount: IAccount = await WalletClient.getAccountFromSecretKey(

>   deployerPrivateKey

Reviewer: Same.

);

const testnetClient: Client = await ClientFactory.createDefaultClient(
  DefaultProviderUrls.BUILDNET,
  true, // retry failed requests

>   baseAccount // optional parameter, will be used as default account when no account is specified

Reviewer: Same.

<TabItem value="labnet-client" label="Labnet" default>

```typescript
const baseAccount: IAccount = await WalletClient.getAccountFromSecretKey(

>   deployerPrivateKey

Reviewer: Same.

);

const testnetClient: Client = await ClientFactory.createDefaultClient(
  DefaultProviderUrls.LABNET,
  true, // retry failed requests

>   baseAccount // optional parameter, will be used as default account when no account is specified

Reviewer: Same.

<TabItem value="local-client" label="Localnet" default>

```typescript
const baseAccount: IAccount = await WalletClient.getAccountFromSecretKey(

>   deployerPrivateKey

Reviewer: Same.

);

const testnetClient: Client = await ClientFactory.createDefaultClient(
  DefaultProviderUrls.LOCALNET,
  true, // retry failed requests

>   baseAccount // optional parameter, will be used as default account when no account is specified

Reviewer: Same.

<TabItem value="custom-client" label="Custom Client">
You can also create a custom client connecting to a node whose ip and ports are to be specified by the user.

```typescript
const baseAccount: IAccount = await WalletClient.getAccountFromSecretKey(

>   deployerPrivateKey

Reviewer: Same.

const customClient: Client = await ClientFactory.createCustomClient(
  providers,
  true, // retry failed requests

>   baseAccount // optional parameter, will be used as default account when no account is specified

Reviewer: Same.

);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::info

> Please note that specifying a base account is only optional at this point, a client can be initialized without it if you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that specifying a base account is only optional at this point. An account is needed only to perform operations that require a signature.
```

> don't need to sign transactions. You can learn more about how to manage the base account in the [Wallet Operations](https://web3.docs.massa.net/classes/WalletClient.html) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more about how to manage the base account in the [Wallet Operations](https://web3.docs.massa.net/classes/WalletClient.html) section.
```

:::

### Client exposed APIs

Once there is an initialized client instance, it is straightforward to call methods on it:

```ts
const balance = await web3Client
  .wallet()

>   .getAccountBalance("address);

Reviewer 2: typo
